in this video let us talk about function over-loading.
What is function
overloading?
You can write more than one functions with the same name but a different argument list.
Let us see how. I will first write main function.
And here I will take some variables.
Now I want to have one function called add.
which will add two numbers A and B and return the result, that i will take it in  C.so i will write down this
function. integer add
which takes two integers x and integer y.
Now here I don't have to declare any variable simply I will write return x plus y, that's it.
It's a simple function, so yes that add function when I call, a will be copied in X and B will be
copied in Y and it will add these two other numbers and the result that comes in C Okay.
This is fine. now I want to write one more function here.
So I will declare one more variable here D, then I will say add A, B,C.
….
and store the result in D, i want to add the values of A and B and whatever I got it in C and the
result should be in D.
So do I have this function.
We're just taking three integers.
No that is taking two Int.
So let us write one function, integer
What should be the name.
same name, can i use same name, yes.
Actually if you look at C language and there you cannot have more than one functions with the same name.
But here in C++ you can have more than one functions with the same name but a different argument list.
So what other different arguments here, see this was taking in the x and y, 2 integers.
But this is taking three integers. yes they are different, these two functions are different.
So you can have two different functions but different parameters.
So when you call this it will be calling first function, when you call this it will be calling second function.
So C++ compiler can differentiate between two functions o this is called Overloading
of a function that is function Overloading.
So we are taking extra work from same name.
So the benefit here is that you don't have to think of new names every time because that is also adding.
This is also adding.
So I don't have a different name.
I don't have to say add to add three.
I don't have to take different names, so that is the benefit we are getting now.
One more example I'll show you.
I have float numbers I= 2.5F and J=3.5F and k now k assign add i, j.
I'm having add function which is taking float.
Do I have it.
No.
Can I write such a function.
Let me write here  it in small space.
I'll just seperate it so float add which is taking two floats.
Float x and float y.
.
And this is returning
x plus Y.
Yes.
I will seperate this also.
So now I have one more function which is  taking two floats.
it is taking 2 parameters, this was also taking two parameters
These are two same functions?
No these two are different functions.
These two are different functions so how you can say these functions are different.
No. of parameters are same but the data type is different, float float, int int, here data type is same
But the no. of parameters are different, two
And this is having three so that's it.
In C++ two functions are set to be different if they have same name but different parameters list.
How the parameters list can be different either the data  type of the parameter or the number of parameters.
So the benefit is that it is easy for writing the programs and you don't have to remember too many
function names.
when you say add  you can just give name as add, it may be taking float
Also it may be taking int also it may be taking multiple int also
It helps a lot to a programmer.
Let me show you some list of function declarations where you can check which is a valid or invalid.
Let me write a few function declarations and see which are valid  or invalid so I will write down one
function which name is Max and it is takinng two int and return type as integer.
Yes I can have one more function with the same name and taking float.
I'm also one more taking float and return type is float.
Are these two different functions.
Yes because there parameters  list is different data type is different.
can I have a max function which is taking 3 integers
and returning integer.
Yes it is different from this one because their data type is different and it's different from this
one because the number of arguments are different, two int and three integers.
now i will write one more Max function.
int
And int two integers but returning float.
So this is matching with this, the data types of the parameters are same and the number of bottom of
are so same but a return type is different.
So are they different.
No.
Does this is the name conflict, this is the same function.
So return type is never considered in function Overloading if the function names and parameters are exactly
same.
But their return type is  different means.
They are not overloaded.
It's a name conflict.
It's a name conflict  means you are redefining a same function again.
So that's all about function Overloading.
I will show you practically how it looks.